And in production to the book of Nahum, the prophet Nahum was likely living in Judah when he wrote the book bearing his name.
Nahum's message focuses primarily on a single theme, the complete destruction of the Assyrian city of Nineveh.
Nineveh, known for its violence and brutality, was referred to as the city of bloodshed.
At one time in response to the judgment message delivered by the prophet Jonah, the inhabitants of Nineveh repented of their wickedness.
However, the Ninevites eventually returned to their wicked ways, and about two centuries after Jonah's prophecy, Jehovah used Nahum to prophesy against Nineveh again.
The book of Nahum was completed sometime before 632 BCE, the year Nineveh was destroyed.
Nahum was a contemporary of the prophet Zephaniah and Jeremiah. The book of Nahum contains three chapters.
In chapter 1, Nahum proclaims Jehovah's judgment against the city of Nineveh.
The entire city with its collection of pagan gods made of wood, stone, and metal will be completely destroyed.
This is good news for the people of Judah.
Free from that cruel and dangerous enemy, they can celebrate their festivals in peace.
Did you know We can trace Nineveh's origin back to the days of Nimrod, the founder of the First Empire to exist after the flood.
Chapters 2 and 3 describe Nineveh's destruction in greater detail.
Nineveh was a heavily fortified city with high walls and a moat, but Nahum prophesies that the gates of the rivers will be opened and the palace will be dissolved.
These words were fulfilled in 632 BCE when flooding caused damage to the city.
This permitted the besieging forces of Babylon and media to capture the city and destroy it.
Jehovah's prophetic word through Nahum came true in every detail.
As you read the book of Nahum, consider how Jehovah hates violence.
How Jehovah always fulfills his word and how Jehovah provides comfort for all who seek peace and salvation under his kingdom.